Eric and I know quite a bit about Ai and
marketing not because we think we're the
best or the smartest or anything like
that it's because we're actually trying
it out AI tools for Content creation are
lacking problem I have with a lot of the
AI stuff right now and the tools out
there you end up using them in the
results are mediocre I'm not talking
about the results from like oh it's
getting you more traffic let's explore
the future of AI and marketing
everyone's focusing on content Creation
with AI instead of analytics and data
Bard versus chat GPT I know a lot of
people use chat GPT but I get much more
better output from bar than I do from
chat GPT AI versus manual content
creation none of them are really as good
as just manually creating content this
is Neil
Patel helping you succeed through online
marketing well let's kick this off let's
talk about AI I know you know let's
first start off with tools I know you
use a lot of AI tools but um dude what
do you think about some of the AI tools
out there I know at the inbound event we
met uh peach peach AI I think is called
Peach what are some of the other tools
out there that you're using right now
for AI yeah so Opus dopr would be a
competitor to Peach it will take like
our clip from this 30 minutes or so and
it will find the most interesting
moments that have an interesting hook
and it'll actually rate it on a scale
one to 100 on how viral it thinks it
will go and it'll also site why it
thinks it will go viral plus it'll also
add the captions in as well so it really
takes away a lot of the editing heavy
lifting and it saves a lot of time dude
I've been using Bard a lot I know a lot
of people use chat GPT but I don't know
what you think it's just Bard I get such
a much much more better output from Bard
than I do from chat GPT and I don't know
if you saw this I know we talked about a
little bit but with Gemini a right they
saying by the end of or it's currently
what four or 5x more powerful than chat
GPT by the end of next year in 2024 is
predicted to be 20 times more powerful
it's kind of ridiculous actually funny
enough I pay for chat chpd I pay the $20
a month but I use bardmore as well
because I'm just like okay they probably
have a larger data set to work with dud
you know they do because it's like look
at Google right Google has literally I I
don't have any data to prove this it's
probably online somewhere but I bet you
it has the largest data set out of any
you know search engine or probably
internet company out there yeah I mean
you think about all the people typing in
their queries and all the content
they're they're crawling I mean they are
the largest search engine in the world
right so um the other one I want to call
out too is uh cast m magic. it will take
like this podcast and it will make show
notes for it like timestamp show notes
it will also make a tweet storm for you
it will also make a description for you
it will also create titles for you as
well it will save you a lot of time and
like that is kind of the theme with a
lot of this AI stuff yeah the problem I
have with a lot of the AI stuff right
now and the tools out there you end up
using them in the results are mediocre
I'm not talking about the result from
like oh it's getting you more traffic I
haven't seen really any just being like
Oh you pop this AI tool and it gets you
more traffic but if you look at AI most
marketers use it for Content creation
and whether it's CAD GPT or Bard or a
writer from Uber CS or semm rush or
whoever has the latest AI writer the
content quality no matter if you're
using the open AI API or whether you're
using your own in-house built solution
none of them are really as good as just
manually creating content um at least
from what I've seen and even like mid
Journey there's a big upgrade from what
mid Journey has done over the years but
the problem with mid journey is it's
like all right what are you going to
really use it for within your marketing
material and yes I do think there's a
lot of benefits from Ai and AI is here
to stay and there's more value than not
having it but the big thing I believe in
AI is people overestimate uh what it can
do for them in the short run but they
drastically underestimate what it will
do for them in the long run in the short
run I talked to so many people and
they're just like yeah I'm going to
integrated in my marketing like when we
at the inbound event I met up with so
many people a lot of the questions were
like how do I replace all my marketing
staff with AI I'm like well this is just
a a recipe for disaster it's not going
to happen and people are looking to use
AI to cut cost and get more results and
I'm like it's not going to happen the
quality of the output on that you're
getting from AI is just not there and
I'm not saying that because I have an
agency or you have an agency but it's
the reality like go try creating ad
campaigns tons of content with AI and
only Ai and have very little human
intervention and go see what happens
with your results and we've tested it
and just you know every time we've
tested it it causes the results to tank
but it doesn't mean a bad it's just use
it for what it is have a human go in and
modify it and make things better just in
the long run you know it'll get much
better we just have to be patient you
know what's interesting Neil So related
to that note I actually think agent
agency type businesses will boom in the
next five to 10 years or so because AI
will help bring gross margins up and
when you have higher gross margins by
the way if you're an agency owner
listing to this that means if you want
to sell later your multiple could
potentially be higher as well yeah dude
uh you were at at the all-in podcast I
mean all-in Summit right with the all-in
podcast with chamat David Sachs uh they
had like some really big hitters there
Elon uh spoke Shopify CEO spoke Brian
Armstrong from coinbase spoke uh there
was a lot more big hitters Ray doio was
there but what was their overall
thoughts on AI did they really talk
about it much not as much because I feel
like AI is getting overdone now people
are just talking about it all the time
and they've given their thoughts on it
at the end of the day in general
everyone is optimistic about and they've
believed that it's going to make um just
it's going to be a net positive to
humanity you know Elon is a little you
know he kind of helped co-found open AI
initially because you know he believed
that you know it was a Force for good
but when they became more private and
closed off and you know Microsoft was
backing it he believed that incentives
were weren't as aligned anymore so
that's why he felt like he had to step
back in again and and make things right
right and so that that is like another
example of him believing that AI can be
used for a nefarious reason so he just
wants to be a force for good there yeah
and what's funny is I think he also
contributed some money to open ey in the
early days I could be wrong but totally
but like that that's when he thought
like things were like going to be okay
so yeah yeah but no dude we're seeing
the same thing right now and like the
big thing that I'm seeing in marketing
is everyone's focusing on content
Creation with AI instead of analytics
and data dude it's just like you work
with a lot of clients too imagine if you
can take someone's Facebook ad data
their Google ad data uh their Bing ad
data their Reddit ad data Snapchat Etc
pretty much take all of it right if you
just look at Google as a whole I think
the ad revenue is around $160 billion
around the last 12 months it's somewhere
around there either way it's a massive
number and when you look at that number
imagine how much wastage is an ad spent
if you can tie in all the analytics into
one place and in real time it alerts a
human on where there's wastage and what
campaigns may not be working and it
Flags it and it can say hey what do you
want me to do here spend more spend less
stop click here to look at the campaigns
and evaluate and then you can end up
making decisions but I believe that'll
save companies so much money because
every time I go to a conference and talk
to people and I've asked this on stage
multiple times how many people log into
their analytics on a daily basis
majority of the room never logs into the
analytics and then when I ask him how
many you guys are actually taking action
based on the analytics on a daily or
weekly basis or even monthly and I
typically ask all three very few people
take action so it's just like with all
the money being SP on ad spend I look at
that as AI can really help company save
a lot of money look I mean there's a
tool that HubSpot is coming out with
called chat spot and their whole thing
is like you can ask it hey what are
what's the average lifetime value of a
customer in the last six months or so or
the last nine months last 12 months and
so typically you might need to ask your
marketer but sometimes you might need to
ask a data scientist or you might need
to ask a controller or a finance person
on your team and sometimes those people
might take three to four days or like an
entire week to get get you that report
and sometimes you you need that you need
the data kind of tweaked a little bit so
oh by the way can you tweak it this way
then it'll take another three days
another five days by the time that
happens like everything is forgotten and
you just don't have time to work on it
anymore but when you have a bot telling
you answering you questions answering
questions real time and also making
recommendations for you that is real
problem solving and that's how you
really get to the next level with your
business because that's going to help
with how you define your strategy dude
totally and the other cool thing too is
it's like you're going to end up
learning really quickly if something is
working well for you or not just by
testing and you can test a little bit
here and there uh with different things
and it can quickly tell you if you're
going to get results like for example
we've tried creating a lot of content
pages on AI or using Ai and what we
found is the traffic has on those pages
versus and and and websites versus
manually creating content we saw a big
increase in the websites that we're
using manual content creation versus Ai
and even with the same domains we tried
AI based content and man manual and we
typically almost always saw the manual
versions winning uh I know you've done
some AI stuff too on the single Grand
website I believe you use AIA to create
like basic templated landing pages I
don't mean basic in a bad way but
there's a lot of basic longtail keywords
and phrases that companies could be
targeting that could be considered quote
unquote boring content or simple content
that anyone can write and I know you use
a ton of AI for that um which has helped
you get more rankings in traffic too um
to Neil's point we haven't completely
said hey let's stop all the comp the the
manual human created content we're still
doing that but we want to experiment and
try things over time and so so we can
share this information with you yeah
what we've done with AI that we've found
success in is having it create basic
tools so we found that tools get the
most backlinks like we've bought Uber
cits and to the public we never bought
them for its backlinks but when you look
at how many backlinks these free tools
have it's just ridiculous some of them
have over 10,000 backlinks and AI you
know can create the game of pong it did
it in less than 60 seconds but when you
look at like Advanced tools being like
create me an sem Rush alternative it's
not going to end up doing that in a
successful way but on the flip side hey
create me a AB testing calculator and
then we give it to our internal
developer internal developer then goes
and modifies and adjusts it and then you
pop it on the website we're seeing a
good traffic gains over time like six
plus months B we're seeing natural
backlinks and we're seeing huge wins
from that the same thing we're seeing
big wins from so not just on the tool
end but on the infographic end so you
can end up creating um using AI to help
you come up with a story with tons of
data because it can scour the web and
help you find stats based on the points
you're trying to make and then you pop
that in an infographic we haven't tried
using the AI to actually make the
infographic but the data collection and
the story we use it because a lot of
times when you're creating an
infographic you know what you want to
say like if I'm creating an infographic
on how colors affect purchase is you
know I'll talk about like what are the
meanings of each color well you can just
put that in chat gbt or B it'll spit it
out which ones affect conversions and
all these kind of questions you can then
go take that and create a infograph to
like infogram or canva or send it to a
designer yeah that's been pretty
effective from what we've tested and
seen as well you know I think it's
really important to bring this framework
to to everyone so a couple months ago I
was at an event uh it was it a YPO event
and um a individual named soul rased she
used to be the chief data officer I
believe at L'Oreal and she broke down
the three types of AI and she says 99%
of things that are happening that we're
talking about right now or the use cases
it's not true artificial intelligence
and so you really have three one's
automated intelligence the second one is
augmented intelligence and the third one
is artificial intelligence and most of
what we're doing right now is we're
automating a lot of things and we're
augmenting a lot of things and that's
helping us save a lot of time at the end
of the day but true artificial
intelligence is when you're able to talk
talk to something and and it's able to
think and it's able to talk back to you
yeah like the movie IR robot where you
actually have like this robot that's
next to you and you can ask it any
question it'll not just answer it but
it'll also do tasks for you in a real
time and it can adjust based on what it
sees so I just got access to this thing
called uh with withi or with deli.com
and it's this is like a an alpha version
what they're doing is they're combining
everything I've ever said in my YouTube
videos my podcast they're combining
leveling up they're combining marketing
school and it's like a little like a
Eric Sue GPT over here and we'll
probably do one for marketing school as
well where you can basically ask it
questions maybe we'll give it away for
free maybe we'll charge $5 a month or
whatever but like these are like the
things like how can you improve your
product experience on negative reviews
or whatever or on marketing um how do
you evoke emotion and tell a story in
your marketing videos okay dude I
remember you telling me how you asked I
think it was chat GPT or was it Bard uh
how do I improve the conversions on this
web page and it spit you out a laundry
list of all the stuff that you could be
doing too based on what it found from
the web and it did an okay job but the
fact that it's doing an okay job right
now like how's it going to be in the
next five years yeah no it should be
really good in the next five years but
yeah know a lot of those uh things that
people are testing are kind of crazy
like my team is testing a AI voice that
you can kind of like what you just
showed on your screen you can ask it
anything but the voice is my voice and
it's speaking too fast so they got to
slowed down but it's really close to
being accurate where you can't even tell
if it's my voice or AI voice for most
queries for some things it's choppy or
it doesn't make sense but for most
things we're seeing it be super super
effective like we this is a total like
total conjecture from our end but how do
you actually rank highly on like a Bard
or a chat gpg because I just asked Bard
right here what are the best marketing
podcasts and so we have Perpetual
traffic where this is incorrect by the
way it says Amy Porterfield and Jenna
cucher that's that's wrong but at least
number two says marking school by Neil
Patel and Eric Sue that's correct yeah I
was about to say isn't Amy portfields uh
podcast online marketing Made Easy yeah
but what do you think Neil like how do
you rank highly on these gpts that
people use okay think about it this way
you do a search on Google and you get
results one through 10 on page one I
know for most qu sometimes it's a little
bit different than that but let's just
imagine you're getting a list through
one through 10 they're looking at things
like backlinks uh other factors like
domain Authority I know Google doesn't
use domain Authority but their own
version of it the content quality there
there's a ton of factors like that right
back link O'Brien Dean has an article on
like the 200 factors in Google's
algorithm AI from our understanding
we've talked a lot of employees at these
uh search engines Google being we' even
talked to people at open AI they're
leveraging a lot of the same factors
because when you're doing a search on
Google it's like they're saying hey
here's a top result we think this is the
answer to your query and we think this
is what you want but they're just not
forcing it uh down your throat with AI
they're pretty much just pulling from
the first result then the second result
and third result because it's already
organized in a way that hey here are the
best results and this is what's going to
be the most relevant for people reviews
are important links are important like
those are forms of citations as well
right brand mentions or recommendations
whatever it is exactly right um and
that's how I think we're here and plus
we have over 2500 episodes now so we've
been like there's a lot of pages as well
I I think that might be a factor too
that's like the number of times it's
been seen in search yeah it's like why
would you pull for someone who's brand
new uh who hasn't had a t experience
versus someone who's been doing it for
10 20 30 years and the other thing that
I would end up saying is when you're
looking at e the biggest problem that
people get is they're just like oh I can
fake it what do I need to do to create a
shortcut and show I have eat versus
actually having it but that that's wrong
just like with SEO you don't want to
play shortcuts and be like let me just
rank on top of Google and Eric and I
have done a lot of black hat stuff when
we first started in our career and that
short-term stuff never works if we did
white has stuff from day one in our
career and to be clear Eric and I only
focus on wh has stuff and have been for
a long time now we would have been much
further in our career and our businesses
would have been much larger as well and
by the way like I think that's important
for everyone to know to it's when
especially with SEO it's important to
experience and understand how both sides
black gray or white had how they all
work and then what you want to end up
doing for the long term is it's much
easier to to operate within the law and
do things in a clean way than it is to
try to take shortcuts because eventually
you get caught right um and you know we
we tested these on small sites that we
didn't care about and we we torched them
but that's a whole another side thing I
think with the AI stuff in the long term
I would say you are going to be able to
be if you if you weren't a designer
before you're now a designer if you
weren't a programing before you are now
a programmer you can make widgets you
can get things done a lot faster and we
haven't even begun to scratch the
surface of what the true potential is I
mean it hasn't even been a full year
since chat GPT came out has it has it
not been a full whole year came out of
November of 2022 oh wow dude it seems
like it's been out forever and they have
they're iterating so quickly like if you
look at even mid Journey from what they
first released to now it's massively
different uh but on a side note dude we
were both talk you were talking about
black hat stuff I'll I'll say mine but
was the shadiest black hat tactic you've
ever
used uh I need to think about that all
right I'll go first so I remember when I
was a young kid there was all these
WordPress themes so I would pay these
WordPress themes to also say uh design
or like Theme by and it would have the
anchor text of whatever keyword I want
to rank for and we would shoot up to
page one another similar strategy I use
to that is I would take the meme sites
like the sites that were doing memes for
like dogs or cats and I did a poker
contest and they would have to create
you know memes with the image and one of
the requirements were they would have to
um embed a specific image and that would
create link backs to one of my sites and
I popped up to page one for the term
online poker in like 48 hours from zero
to uh page one and I was climbing really
fast and I remember on the poker one
Google pulled it really quickly it was
kind of funny
though um I used to I was building
widgets for this one website that was
getting a lot of um let's say millions
of of visits a month and then um the
widgets the anchor text the widgets they
would change right so it got us all the
rankings that we wanted for maybe four
or five top key words and we did not get
torched for that so yeah dude A lot of
people are using the widgets like
remember the stat counters they' be like
St counter by and they would just pop in
you know different anchor text links for
uh other websites that were getting that
were paying them and stuff like that we
we would also do something similar but
not uh with the widgets we' do something
link related we would go find the
expired domain names that had a lot of
edu and.org like one of them was like
Battlefield bypass and then switch it
over to casino site and weird rank but
nonetheless you know Eric and I
mentioning all this stuff we're not
promoting black hat techniques we don't
think it's worth the time we don't think
you should do them we do think though
you should understand white black and
gray because it can help you understand
what are the best marketing tactics to
use for longevity not short run stuff in
the black hat stuff typically will give
you short-term results and on the
opposite side the white hat stuff will
give you long-term results I mean in
addition to that Neil it's also like at
the end of the day you can't take what
other people say at face value you have
to learn to think for yourself and you
have to learn to experience not just
listen to other people's anecdotes
because how are you going to be able to
think for yourself and that's one of the
good exercises of SEO it forces you to
become an independent thinker and that's
how you achieve maximum success not for
anybody else but for yourself dude and
and and on that note with AI Eric and I
know quite a bit about Ai and marketing
not because we think we're the best or
the smartest or anything like that that
it's because we're actually trying it
out we're not just reading an article
and saying all right here's what we read
about AI you guys should try this out
and we'll try it out too we're more so
playing around with Bard we're more so
playing around with chat GPT we're
trying to get the best uh from it by
playing around whether it's creating
tools or content or images or you know
having it transcribe our podcast and
come up with the Nuggets or using tools
that can take our videos and chop them
and see if we can put up on social media
and create shorts from them or reals
from them or Tik Tok from them and see
the results compared to the videos where
we have film CRS come in and we're doing
a tests and we're trying to figure out
all right did this work better or did
this other thing work better and that
helps us you know stay relevant in
marketing but more importantly try to
get the best results out there for us
and our clients you know the the late
Tony sha so he founded zapo which sold
to to Amazon and you know he said
whatever you're thinking think bigger
and so really when you think about the
use cases with AI right now whatever
you're thinking think bigger if you're
just thinking about using it for Content
creation sure that's a nice use case but
think bigger yes so that's a great way
to wrap this up great quote from Tony
Shay amazing entrepreneur he created
zapo sold to Amazon and before that I
think the company he created was link
share or something like that link
exchange I think or link share I think
you might be right either way he did
really well brilliant guy um and he
created one of the best experiences for
online Sho site hence he got acquired by
Amazon but um we hope this session was
really helpful for you guys when it
comes to a I and how you guys can adapt
to to business and how Eric and I think
about it thank you guys very much for
listening in today and we look forward
to seeing you guys soon now if you have
any questions leave a comment below I'm
here to answer them and help you out if
you enjoyed the video like it share tell
people about it thank you very much